---
layout:            post
title:             "Git Tips"
menutitle:         "Git Tips"
date:              2018-11-05 18:40:00 +0100
category:          Tips
cover:             /assets/img/branch.png
published:		   true
author:            mkimish
tags:              Tips on Git
language:          EN
comments:          true
math:			   false
---

This post is mainly a reminder of some errors I have encountered with Git. Writting things down may help me avoid recurrent errors :)

#### GIT push: permission denied (public key)
* Happened when I wanted to `git push`. 
* [stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19660744/git-push-permission-denied-public-key)
* Need to set up the SSH key and add it to Github (or wherever your `remote` is). 
* I was surprised when finding out that I didn't do it on my laptop! 

#### src refspec master does not match any.
* Happened when I wanted to `git push`. When creating my `github.io` repo, I didn't follow the process of forking the template and then modifying. I cloned the original repo, modified it and then wanted to push to the `origin` to the empty `github.io` repo that I created. At first it didn't work because the `origin` still points to the original repo which of course I cannot write to. Then I changed the `origin` by `git remote set-url` and it gave me this error. I thought it was because of not forking the repo, so I followed the recommended path again. But this error still persisted.
* [stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4181861/src-refspec-master-does-not-match-any-when-pushing-commits-in-git)
* Turned out that the forked repo did not have the `master` branch, only a `gh-pages` branch. I need to specify the branch name...

#### Miscellaneous
* show changes on a file before commit, before/after add
`git diff file` shows diff of a file from the previous commit.
`git diff --cached file` after add
* show refs: `git show-ref`
* git clone submodules
`git clone --recurse-submodules -j8 git://github.com/foo/bar.git`
* update submodules: commit in submodule, push in submodule, commit in main repo, push in main repo. (not validated yet)
* `git push <remote_name> --delete <branch_name>` deletes a remote branch. `git branch -d/-D <branch_name>` deletes a local branch. `-D` forces the delete.
* `git cherry-pick <commit>` applys the changes introduced by `commit` on top of the current branch. I used that a lot. Probably it is very bad...
* `git config --global alias.co checkout` set a global git shorthand.

(Background image credit: <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6_yylg0J-14" target="_blank">video</a>)